One source of contention when you are developing
locally, and you've got Node modules on your host,
and you've got them in the container, is that they might be
incompatible. If you're on Mac OS, or Windows, that
Node modules that you may have installed on your host OS,
may not work inside your container.
In fact, we really don't want to mix the two, right.
The idea of Docker, or one of our goals here, is that
everything is acting the same on every platform.
We're getting the same Node modules inside
the container. The ones that are built in the image and
ideally those are the same, right.
If you've ever done Node development on your native
host, you've got that node modules directory designed
for your host architecture sitting there in your repo.
So, what do we do about that?
Well, there's two answers to this problem that I think
work well. The first one is easier
to get started and simpler for maybe your own projects if
you're just a single person. If you're more in a team
environment, we've got to take more into consideration,
more ways that people might develop their apps, then the
second option is going to be more likely for you
to use. It's a little more work and a little more complex
in concept, but they both work well.
They just have different processes.
The first one essentially has you doing your npm install
inside the container and then when there's the bind
mount to your host, it will then put those Node
modules on the host OS.
Which means that you can't do Node development natively
on your host anymore because those Node modules are
designed for Linux.
This may not really matter if you're not using binary
stuff like node--- would build for you, but in
a lot of cases, this will have a problem if you're trying
to use these across the different OS's.
So, this would mean that you would need to do everything
in Compose. Which if you're doing Docker development and
that's the way you're going to stick with it, then great.
This first method works fine.
The second one is more where we're going to
move node modules in the container and then we're going to
hide the ones on the host so that they don't conflict with
each other. In this first solution, it's easy
to get started because it doesn't require any special setup
in your Dockerfile or in your Compose.
However, it does mean that you need to run a docker compose
run to get the npm installed
inside the container, but sort of sending those
files to your host through the bind mount.
We'll see an example in a second.
So, you have to do that docker compose run to get things
started before you can ever do a docker compose up.
This is the one where we're storing the node modules in the
container. We're actually storing those inside the bind
mount that's going to the host OS.
This will be a little easier to make sense when I show you.
I'm in a sample Express app, a very simple generated
Express app here, that if I just
look at the Dockerfile. If I just do a cat dockerfile,
you can see it's a very standard setup, similar to our last
lecture where we're just copying in the package
files. Then we're doing an npm install.
Then we're running the standard node express
directory and file.
That makes sense, right.
There's nothing special about that. If we look at the
Compose file,
this also is very simple. It's got just a standard build
statement there to build everything in the current
directory. It's opening up the default port on express.
Then we're bind mounting the current directory
that we're in in our repo into the app directory in the
container. That means that the node module subdirectory
goes with it.
But if I list the stuff in this directory, you'll see that
there's no node modules directory on my
host. That's because I've never run npm install on my host.
Because if I'm always doing development in Docker, why do I
need to do that, right? I don't need to have npm install on
my host. In theory, I could have none of those tools
installed and just do everything inside of Docker.
Reality is though, you're probably going to have the stuff
on your host, right. It's just convenient to have there.
But, I don't want to do an npm install.
Because if I do, it'll get the binaries and stuff that are
specific to Mac, not the Linux VM I need to be in.
So, if I do just a docker compose up,
what's going to happen?
It's going to fail and you're going to get this cannot find
module error. Depending on the application, it will be a
different module that it can't find.
But this is a clear indicator that it tried to start
the app, but the dependencies aren't there.
That's why it's saying can't find module.
The node modules are just not found.
That's because I'm bind mounting, remember, from that
Compose file. I'm bind mounting the host into the
container. So, the first thing here is I get a lot of
people that ask, why do I have this error?
It works when I do a docker run, but when I do docker
compose with a bind mount, it doesn't work.
That's just because if I go into that container
and I did and ls in the app directory, it would be ls'ing
the host which as we can see, has
no node modules.
Some people then would mistakingly run an npm install
on the host, which would probably not get you the desired
result you're looking for. The run command is great at this
because it doesn't require, like an exec, that the
container already be running.
It can just start a new one.
So, docker compose run.
Then I want to pick the service.
If you remember in our Compose file, the service was called
express. Then, I just need
to run whatever command I want to run in that container.
I can do here an npm install.
What this will do is it will act as if it's running
npm install for the first time in the container, but it's
writing all those files into the node modules,
inside the bind mount, on my host, in my current directory.
Now, if I do an ls, I'll have a node modules.
If I do an ls of that node modules, I'll have all my
stuff there that I would expect for this express app.
So great.
Now, I can do my docker compose up.
My app works because it sees a node modules
inside the bind mount.
That first solution you will see that the benefit there is
it's easy to get started. It doesn't require anything
special. But the challenges is that node modules
on your host is now always designed for running in the
container. What if you work in an environment where you
can't always assume that.
Maybe you're working in a team where some people just
aren't using Docker yet. Or you just want the flexibility
to be able to run things in the container.
But, if you just need to edit something quickly, that you
can just run on the host without actually having to do
docker compose up. Maybe you'd like that flexibility.
In more advanced scenarios where you want to have these
node modules on the host be for the host OS,
and then the node modules in the container be for the
container OS, you just need a slightly different setup.
What we need to do here is edit both the Dockerfile and
the Compose file to relocate the node
modules. In fact, what we are doing is we're moving
the node modules permanently in that
Dockerfile so that when it builds the image, it's going to
move it up a directory.
This is part of the Node standard
where Node will look for a node modules in the current
directory of the app, and then it will go up to the parent
directory and look for it there, if it doesn't find it, and
then keep working up the directory chain until it finds a
node module directory.
The first thing I need to do here is move the working
directory so that I have a parent.
I could do something simple like this, just saying the work
directory is node/app.
I want to put the code in this directory, this
node/app. I would need to move that down here before the
copy.
Up here, before we copy in the package files, we actually
want the node modules now to be in that root
directory. So, I would need to do a workdir.
And then Node here.
Hopefully, that makes sense.
What I'm essentially doing is getting the node modules
out of my app directory and moving it up.
Most apps in Node do support this.
There are a few still that just won't work with node
modules and they don't adhere to the Node standard for
this. In that case, you're going to have to go with
solution 1 from earlier.
But in this case, most modern frameworks do support this.
That's the first part, so we'll need to rebuild the image
and that node modules will be moved up a slot.
But, we need to also go into the Docker Compose and
change a few things there.
On this volumes, obviously we have to change this because
we want to mount it now into node/app.
We need to do something about the node
modules on the hosts.
Remember in this example, I might be developing on my host
and that node modules will exist.
It turns out in Node that the node modules, if it
exists in your current directory, will always
be used regardless of whether there's one in the parent
working directory. We have to now hide the one that's
coming from the host.
What we can do here is simply create a new volume
for that expected node modules
coming in from the host by just doing a node app
node modules.
What this is going to do here is create an anonymous
volume, because we don't really need to keep this at that
location. We're basically putting
a volume inside of a bind mount, which is
a little weird. It actually works.
It will mean that when the container is running, the node
modules inside the app directory will be
hidden. It'll be there but it'll be empty.
Then the app will go looking to the directory above it for
node modules there.
Let's run this and see if it works.
For this setup, I do, though, want to do an npm install
on the host to simulate the idea
that I'm maybe editing sometimes on the host, and maybe
editing sometimes in the container.
I do want that node modules to exist in my
host OS just to ensure that things work.
If I do an ls here, I'm going to have node modules.
If I do an ls node modules.
Of course, this node modules is specific to my Mac OS.
So, it's going to be different than what's running in the
container. If I do a docker compose build,
it's going to rebuild that image and essentially move that
node modules directory up a notch in the directory
structure.
Now, let's do a docker compose up.
I'm going to do a -d here.
Let's do a docker compose ps just to make sure that this
thing is running as expected. OK. It's running in there.
Let's go in and test it.
I'm going to do a docker compose exec
bash into that express app.
Now I'm in that directory. If I do an ls, I should see a
node modules there. But if I do an ls on node modules,
there's nothing in there.
If I do an ls on the node modules that's up
a directory, that's
where the stuff is at. So, you can see that this example is
great because it gives me more flexibility about where and
how I run Node.
It doesn't conflict with the host.
If I'm running on any OS, this will work, whether it's
Mac, Windows or Linux.
It doesn't require any special start, like an npm run,
what we had in the solution 1.
I prefer this one generally just because I'm used to
it. I know it works well.
On a few apps out there, sails, for one, at least at the
point of recording this video, I know that sails.js is one
of the few that still doesn't work with moving node modules
up a directory. It just doesn't work for local development.
It's a known issue that they haven't fixed.
Hopefully, these two options are flexible enough for you
and make sense. We're going to be using them throughout the
rest of this course.